Now
 that you've run your first program, I need to share with you some
 tips for learning to code. First is, do try the code. Do pause
 the videos and do run the code. And to test your understanding of how the line of code works. Try asking yourself questions like "what do I think will
 happen if I leave a quotation mark out?" Or if I accidentally have two instead of one closing parentheses and then change the code, run it and see if you
 are right. To give yourself practice, I also encourage you to complete the practice exercises, and I also encourage you to use the chatbot as often as you want. Think of the AI chatbot as your buddy or your coding companion, who knows
 Python pretty well and is patient and just wants to help you out. While going through this course, you might think of some "what if" or "why" questions. "What if I did that? Why is it like that?"
 Go ahead and ask the chatbot as many questions as you want. You can also ask your chatbot to explain code and sometimes asking it "How does this code work? What is this doing?" That might help you understand what a piece of code is actually doing. And this is actually what professional software developers do today as well
. When there's a piece of code I don't understand, I will paste it in the chatbot sometimes and see if it can help me out. And when you're coding and running code it's totally fine if something doesn't work the first time round. Errors in code are completely expected.
 After all, this may be a brand new language for you. And just as when you're learning to speak Spanish or French for the first time, you won't say everything right the first time round, which they expect to see. When you're learning a new programming language, you will get everything right
 the first time around. And if it doesn't work the first time around, that's totally fine. Just try a different approach if you can think of one or ask the chatbot for help. And in fact, the chatbot can also help you read and understand error messages. Finally, instead of just copy-
pasting answers from the chatbot into your code, consider also reading the chatbots response to see if the chatbot can share with you a new perspective or teach you something, rather than just give you the answer. And that way, hopefully you also keep on deepening your understanding of coding. I hope you feel free to learn
 at your own pace. So pause the videos whenever you want. When I'm learning online, I often pause the video when I feel like I need to think and then come back only when I feel like I've got it and then I want to move on. And feel free to go as fast or as
 slow as you want. To make sure you understand these concepts. Learning to code is really fun, and I hope these tips make this even more enjoyable for you. And with that, let's go on to the next video on data in Python.